Create index.md as initial introduction to ABAP language. (#28989)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: guide/english/abap/index.md

---
title: ABAP
---

## What is ABAP?

ABAP stands for Advanced Business Application Programming and is a programming language used by SAP developers.

> SAP is an Enterprise Resource Planning system used by large companies. It's renenue could be compared to other tech giants like Microsoft and Apple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SAP is an Enterprise Resource Planning system used by large companies. It's revenue could be compared to other tech giants like Microsoft and Apple.
```

"HANA is the in-house database powering many of SAP’s products. It is written in C++ with Python tests, and the entire code base lives inside of a single git repository. Hundreds of developers from all around the world are developing on about 10 million lines of C++ code and 15 million lines of Python tests.
Since HANA is deployed on Linux exclusively, many developers are using Linux on their workstations as well. So far Windows is still supported as a development environment, but this will change in 2019, leaving Linux as the only choice. "Source: https://hookrace.net/blog/hana-cpp-development/, 2017, Dennis Felsing"

ABAP is a robust programming language that allows the user to use object oriented concepts, inheritance, persistency, field symbols, structures to put a user's code in any place of the SAP ERP or Business Warehouse system. ABAP is a 4GL language developed specifically for the mass processing of data in business applications. This concept allows developers to put business logic inside, create reports, expose and manipulate data. 
ABAP IDE is either SAP GUI or Eclipse.

> Official ABAP documentation can be found in the link: https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_750_index_htm/7.50/en-US/index.htm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Official ABAP documentation can be found [here](https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_750_index_htm/7.50/en-US/index.htm)
```

      SELECT DISTINCT something FROM some_table
          WHERE counter = ( SELECT MIN( counter ) FROM
          some_table WHERE some_column = @pv_sourcesys )
        AND soursystem = @pv_sourcesys
         INTO @DATA(lv_yft_gen_repr_sel_pck).
      ENDSELECT.

    " Check if proper value was selected - if so, no deletion should happen
    CHECK lv_yft_gen_repr_sel_pck IS NOT INITIAL AND lv_yft_gen_repr_sel_pck NE '00'.

    " Loop at internal table given to the method assigning pointers - field symbols, apply filtering to it - if matches, than delete
    LOOP AT result_package ASSIGNING FIELD-SYMBOL(<fs_result_package>).
      "As this table has type 'any' - indexed table, than we have to assign specific column name of the structure to a field symbol
      ASSIGN COMPONENT 'NAME_OF_THE_COLUMN_WE_ARE_LOOKING_FOR' OF STRUCTURE <fs_result_package> TO FIELD-SYMBOL(<fs_NAME_OF_THE_COLUMN_WE_ARE_LOOKING_FOR>).
      CHECK <fs_gm1pck> IS ASSIGNED.
      IF <fs_gm1pck> NE lv_yft_gen_repr_sel_pck.
        DELETE result_package.
      ENDIF.
    ENDLOOP.

ENDMETHOD. 

```

## ABAP Execution Layers
* Presentation layer 

> This layer is ditributed to the end users and can be accessed both from WEB and from the SAP software itself. In ERP - ECC systems, this layer is when the user creates an invoive, order, executes reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This layer is distributed to the end users and can be accessed both from WEB and from the SAP software itself. In ERP - ECC systems, this layer is when the user creates an invoice, order, executes reports.
```

* Application layer 
This layer on application servers. It constists of ABAP runtime environment in which ABAP programs are executed.

* Database layer
Consists of a database system in which the central dataset of an AS ABAP is saved.

## ABAP execution scenarios

> ABAP programms can transfer data for processiong from database layer to application layer making it a bottom-up approach. This approach makes an application to run a bit slower because it has to transfer the data between the servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ABAP programs can transfer data for processing from the database layer to the application layer, making it a bottom-up approach. This approach makes an application run a bit slower because it has to transfer the data between the servers.
```

To speed up the processing, a top-town approach was introduced. It allows the user to write code that is going to send the instruction (procedure) to the database of how the data should be changed without having to fetch it into application layer. The code is still written in the application layer as a ABAP Managed Database Procedure usually of type SQL Script.  

> 

Reviewer: Everything below this can probably be deleted if there isn't going to be any information added.
